# CI-FirstResponders
This suite of applications will allow dispatchers to monitor vitals, distress status, and location of first responders.

## DistressML
This is a python program named DistressDetector.py that contains various machine learning classification models that will be tested on the dataset as the dataset improves, until the optimal one is discovered with the near-final dataset, after which the automated response system will be implemented.

## DataGenerator
This is a python program that will generate the dataset being used for this project, which at the moment can produce a dataset with mostly realistic values, though it still needs some work before it is as realistic as it can be. Once it is complete, the output will be used to build the finalize ML model. Please ignore the csv file in this folder - it is a much older example that will be deleted in future commits.

## DispatchersMonitoringTool
The dispatcher's monitoring tool will interface with the results from the vitals and location monitoring performed by the disress detector and the mobile vitals monitoring tool. The location data will be displayed on a map, and the corresponding vitals and distress status information will be viewable in this application. Currently, the tool is a baseline application generated by Microsoft Template Studio.

## MobileVitalsMonitoringTool
The mobile application monitoring tool will be responsible for reporting its location, first responder vitals information, and SOS alerts to the dispather's monitoring tool. This is the main interface that first responders will have access to monitor their own vitals as well as request aid. The application will also use a system to automatically send out SOS alerts based on the first responder's vitals information. (Note that vitals information will come from the data generator described above).

## Release Notes
### DistressML
* The ML model is fully functional locally, and now needs to proceed with integration into the mobile application.
### DataGenerator
* The Data generator application is fully functional locally, and now needs to proceed with integration into the mobile application.
### DispatchersMonitoringTool
* Added initial application template generated by Microsoft Template Studio, which includes app navigation, themes, and settings

### MobileVitalsMonitoringTool
* Added initial application template generated by Visual Studio's Xamarin forms. The template includes a basic layout of a mobile application including main page, navigation bar, and several other pages. Both IOS and Android devices are supported.
